let's bring in Maran bashara who Al Des
senior political analyst of course joins
us now from London and Maran uh talking
of complexities for carela Harris I'd
like to look at Gaza through the lens of
the Democrat push to retain the
presidency in November because there is
this need for peace and what would it
mean of course for millions of
Palestinians but also for the election
campaign of carela
Harris well it seems that for Kamala
Harris The best scenario is ambiguity it
seems like this has been the strategy
throughout this convention it is not
coincident that uh none of the speakers
address the question of Gaza not even uh
coincidentally uh not even like a by the
way kind of thing uh even when AOC spoke
She only mentioned about how wonderful
Kamala har is trying to bring about a
ceasefire and that's was the end of that
so when when when political circus like
that uh is really managed kog graphed it
is done in a way whereby a message has
to come through and the message this
year it's not that Israel our closest
Ally and we support Israel
unconditionally nor is it that Israel
has done some terrible things in Gaza
and we stand with the people of Gaza
what we would call constructive
ambiguity for the campaign is let's just
avoid the subject even if it's the
elephant elephant in the room better
just keep it that way until the
elections if possible this way we don't
have to lose the progressives and we
don't have to lose the pro zus crowd but
is that possible can she remain
ambiguous for that degree of time
because it's you know it's still quite a
long way off and uh you know it could
make all the difference if there is any
progress on a
ceasefire well it's been a month Nick
you know so another several weeks yes I
mean certainly she would probably
address it
but in a way again that is ambiguous
because let's all remember there is
still a president in the White House and
this President is staunchly
blindly I don't know what else uh you
know
pro-israel uh basically parting the
Israel lines and if you look at the at
the convention or at the at the DNC at
the at the Democratic party platform
this year the one that Biden's people
devised they still talk about the
indispensable relationship with Israel
because you know if you remember Kamal
Harris basically inherited uh this DNC
from Biden so I think she probably say
some general things but leave the
foreign policy to the president until
November and those General things we've
heard from her before there has to be a
ceasefire and the humanitarian situation
needs to improve for the people in Gaza
and she'll probably leave it at that Mo
and from what you know how different or
otherwise is Cara Harris's position on
foreign policy especially in the Middle
East when compared to Joe
Biden it's going to be quite different I
think from Joe Biden but it will be very
very different from a trump presidency
or from a second Trump presidency you
know there are uh there are uh two main
National Security advisers for uh Kamal
har for the past four years and both of
them have wrote books back in 2020 one
is called open World by Rebecca fredman
and one is called losing the long game
uh by Phil Gordon the latter is her
National Security advisor and will
probably be her future National Security
adviser as president and he said
basically that America overstretched and
basically was foolish in its attempt at
regime change in the Middle East in the
greater Middle East from Afghanistan to
Libya through Syria Iraq Iran and so on
so forth over the past 70 years very
critical reading of of past American
foreign policy re freed in her open
world basically America needs to stop
being so overstretched it needs to stop
with the overreach it needs to stop
thinking of itself as some kind of a
Messianic force of good or bad for that
matter meaning geopolitical Imperial
militaristic power it needs to be modest
it needs to be pragmatic and it needs to
be think thinking of the world as an
open world not interventionist and not
protectionist either so there's quite a
Nuance with with Biden but also quite a
nuance
with a trump presidence all right marn
thanks for that we'll leave it there for
Mar Bashar speaking to us from London
thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer